
DOCUMENTATION ON CHATBOTS

Introduction to AI Chatbot
Were you ever curious as to how to build a talking ChatBot with Python and also have a conversation with your own personal AI?
Natural Language Processing or NLP is a prerequisite for our project. NLP allows computers and algorithms to understand human interactions via various languages. In order to process a large amount of natural language data, an AI will definitely need NLP or Natural Language Processing. Currently, we have a number of NLP research ongoing in order to improve the AI chatbots and help them understand the complicated nuances and undertones of human conversations.
Chatbots are nothing but applications that are used by businesses or other entities to conduct an automatic conversation between a human and an AI. These conversations may be via text or speech. Chatbots are required to understand and mimic human conversation while interacting with humans from all over the world. From the first chatbot to be created ELIZA to Amazon’s ALEXA today, chatbots have come a long way. In this tutorial, we are going to cover all the basics you need to follow along and create a basic chatbot that can understand human interaction and also respond accordingly. We will be using speech recognition APIs and also pre-trained Transformer models.
What is NLP?
NLP stands for Natural Language Processing. Using NLP technology, you can help a machine understand human speech and spoken words. NLP combines computational linguistics that is the rule-based modelling of the human spoken language with intelligent algorithms such as statistical, machine, and deep learning algorithms. These technologies together create the smart voice assistants and chatbots that you may be used in everyday life.
There are a number of human errors, differences, and special intonations that humans use every day in their speech. NLP technology allows the machine to understand, process, and respond to large volumes of text rapidly in real-time. In everyday life, you have encountered NLP tech in voice-guided GPS apps, virtual assistants, speech-to-text note creation apps, and other app support chatbots. This tech has found immense use cases in the business sphere where it’s used to streamline processes, monitor employee productivity, and increase sales and after-sales efficiency.
Tasks in NLP
The task of interpreting and responding to human speech is filled with a lot of challenges that we have discussed in this article. In fact, it takes humans years to overcome these challenges and learn a new language from scratch. To overcome these challenges, programmers have integrated a lot of functions to the NLP tech to create useful technology that you can use to understand human speech, process, and return a suitable response.
NLP tasks are responsible for breaking down human text and audio signals from voice data in ways that can be analyzed and converted into data that the computer understands. Some of the tasks included in NLP data ingestion are as follows 
Types of AI Chatbots
Chatbots are a relatively recent concept and despite having a huge number of programs and NLP tools, we basically have just two different categories of chatbots based on the NLP technology that they utilize. These two types of chatbots are as follows:
1. Scripted chatbots
2. Artificial intelligent chatbots

Challenges  AI Chatbot
In the current world, computers are not just machines celebrated for their calculation powers. Today, the need of the hour is interactive and intelligent machines that can be used by all human beings alike. For this, computers need to be able to understand human speech and its differences.
NLP technologies have made it possible for machines to intelligently decipher human text and actually respond to it as well. However, communication amongst humans is not a simple affair. There are a lot of undertones dialects and complicated wording that makes it difficult to create a perfect chatbot or virtual assistant that can understand and respond to every human.
To overcome the problem of chaotic speech, developers have had to face a few key hurdles which need to be explored in order to keep improving these chatbots. To understand these hurdles or problems we need to under how NLP works to convert human speech into something an algorithm or AI understands. 
1. Context in Chatbots
The key to the evolution of any chatbot is it’s integration with context and meaningful responses, as conversation without any context would be vague. It becomes challenging for companies to build, develop and maintain the memory of bots that offers personalized responses.
That’s when AI technologies like Machine Learning or NLP- Natural Language Processing come into the picture and overcome the challenge of understanding the depth of conversation; up-to an extent. NLP understands the databases and data sets when bots are structured, in predefined sequential order and then converts it into a language that users understand.
However, humans don’t interact in a defined order, as a result intelligent slot filling, which stores the preferences of the regular users is the alternative to maintain the memory of a bot effectively. This insures that your virtual agents are not interacting in the same old predefined order but in a more personalized fashion.
2. Limited User Attention 
Users have limited time span for their queries and expect lightning-fast replies. It’s quite challenging for firms to develop chatbots, that holds user’s attention till the end.
Conversational UI, here plays an important role in exhibiting human like conversations and better customer experiences. It initiates interactions to be more social than being technological in nature. The conversations as a result, should be natural, creative and emotional in order for your chatbot to be successful. In some cases, however a machine wouldn’t always render the same empathy that a human could and this is when a human replacement should take care of the users request. 
3. Chatbot Testing
Chatbot testing is another main issue where most of the complexity lies. Chatbots are continuously evolving due to its upgradation in natural language models. Thus, it becomes vital to test and run chatbot to check it’s accuracy. Testing a chatbot will depend on what type of method you want to experiment.

4. Viability of Data
There is no point of having lots of data, intelligent slot filling or technologically advanced chatbot- if it actually doesn't deliver the USP of your organisation. It is vital for a chatbot to not only be enriched with meaningful data, but also to be equipped to deliver the brand identity to your target audience. In order to check the viability of your virtual agents you should consider asking yourself the following:
* Are your virtual agents delivering to the right audience?
* Does it offer business goals uniquely?
* How is it different from other chatbots?


It may definitely seem to be a great idea to implement chatbot in your digital strategy, but creating a one that meets the expectations of your organisation and users, is a big challenge. An effective and well planned strategy is important for you to consider before presenting the chatbot to your audience. If done well, chatbots can become the contact point for your business and can increase the overall productivity by meeting the customer’s on-demand expectations.
Conclusion
A chatbot is one of the simple ways to transport data from a computer without having to think for proper keywords to look up in a search or browse several web pages to collect information; users can easily type their query in natural language and retrieve information. In this paper, information about the design, implementation of the chatbot has been presented. From the survey above, it can be said that the development and improvement of chatbot design grow at an unpredictable rate due to variety of methods and approaches used to design a chatbot. Chatbot is a great tool for quick interaction with the user. They help us by providing entertainment, saving time and answering the questions that are hard to find. The Chatbot must be simple and conversational. Since there are many designs and approaches for creating a chatbot, it can be at odds with commercial considerations. Researchers need to interact and must agree on a common approach for designing a Chatbot. In this project, we looked into how Chatbots are developed and the applications of Chatbots in various fields. In addition comparison has been made with other Chatbots. General purpose Chatbot must be simple, user friendly, must be easily understood and the knowledge base must be compact. Although some of the commercial products have recently emerged, improvements must be made to find a common approach for designing a Chatbot.
